DOCS-11209-aggregators-size-example-kt (#1502)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: aggregators/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/aggregators-size-example.adoc

= Size-Based Aggregator Example - Mule 4

> The Aggregators module *Size based aggregator* scope enables you to aggregate elements until a pre-defined size number of elements completes the aggregation. The following example shows how to configure this scope to aggregate up to `3` HTTP request calls. Then, the application transforms the calls via DataWeave into random ID numbers. When the aggregation reaches `3` calls, the application logs all the aggregated random ID number elements.

Reviewer: > Then, the application transforms the calls via DataWeave into random ID numbers.

This confuses me a bit. The idea is to set a payload with an ID to verify later that it is the same payload that was aggregated. Since we don't care about the content, this ID just needs to be different each time, that's why a random number is used.

= Size-Based Aggregator Example - Mule 4

> The Aggregators module *Size based aggregator* scope enables you to aggregate elements until a pre-defined size number of elements completes the aggregation. The following example shows how to configure this scope to aggregate up to three HTTP request calls. Then transform the calls via DataWeave into random ID numbers. When the aggregation reaches the three calls, the application logs all the aggregated random ID number elements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Aggregators module *Size based aggregator* scope enables you to aggregate elements until a predefined number of elements completes the aggregation. The following example shows how to configure this scope to aggregate up to three HTTP request calls and then transform the calls, via DataWeave, into random ID numbers. When the aggregation reaches the three calls required for completion, the application logs all the aggregated random ID number elements.
```

.Size-Based Aggregator Flow Example
image::aggregator-size-example.png[Size-Based Aggregator Flow Example in Anypoint Studio Canvas]

> To accomplish this example, you must create the Mule application and test it with curl commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To test this example in your own environment, you must create the Mule application and test it with curl commands.
```

== Create the Mule Application

To create the Mule flow in Anypoint Studio:

> . In *Mule Palette*, select *HTTP Listener* and drag it on to the canvas. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In *Mule Palette*, select *HTTP Listener* and drag it onto the canvas. +
```

The source initiates the flow by listening for incoming HTTP message attributes.

> . In *Connector configuration*, select *HTTP_Listener_config* global configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In *Connector configuration*, select *HTTP_Listener_config*.
```
OR
```suggestion
. In *Connector configuration*, select the *HTTP_Listener_config* global configuration.
```

. Set *Path* to `/test`.
. Drag a *Transform message* component to the right of *Listener*.

> . In the DataSense preview window of the *Transform message*, add the following DataWeave expression that transforms each HTTP request by assigning a `Source Name` as `"size-based"` and a `Source ID` as `random() as String`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the DataSense preview window of *Transform message*, add the following DataWeave expression, which transforms each HTTP request by assigning a `Source Name` as `"size-based"` and a `Source ID` as `random() as String`:
```
OR
```suggestion
. In the DataSense preview window of the *Transform message* component, add the following DataWeave expression, which transforms each HTTP request by assigning a `Source Name` as `"size-based"` and a `Source ID` as `random() as String`:
```

+
[source,DataWeave,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
    "Source Name": "size-based",
    "Source ID": (random() as String)
}
----
[start=6]
. Drag the *Size based aggregator* scope to the right of *Transform message*.

> . Set *Max size* to `3` which is the total number of elements to be aggregated before considering the aggregation complete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Set *Max size* to `3`, which is the total number of elements to be aggregated before considering the aggregation complete.
```
...but do we really need this, considering the example's intro?

> . Set *Content* to `payload` which is the expression that defines what to aggregate, in this case the transformed HTTP requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Set *Content* to `payload`, which is the expression that defines what to aggregate: in this case, the transformed HTTP requests.
```

. Drag a *Logger* component into the *Incremental aggregation* route.
. In the *Logger* configuration screen, set *Message* to `Doing incremental aggregation step.` +
. Drag a *Logger* component into the *Aggregation complete* route.
. Set *Message* to `Aggregation complete`.

> . Drag another *Logger* to the right of the first *Logger* in *Aggregation complete*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Drag another *Logger* component to the right of the first *Logger* component in *Aggregation complete*.
```

> . Set *Message* to the following expression that returns all the aggregated elements:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Set *Message* to the following expression, which returns all the aggregated elements:
```

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
output application/json
---
payload
----
. Save the project.

> . In *Package Explorer* click *Run > Run As > Mule Application*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In *Package Explorer*, click *Run > Run As > Mule Application*.
```

> . Test the app by sending three times the curl command `http://localhost:8086/test`. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Test the app by sending the curl command `http://localhost:8086/test` three times. +
```

> This generates three HTTP requests for the *Size based aggregator* to complete.

Reviewer 2: Should this say "to process," since the whole thing is not complete until all three are addressed?

INFO  2021-06-08 11:18:50,189 [[MuleRuntime].uber.02: [aggregator-size-demo].aggregator-size-demoFlow.CPU_INTENSIVE @20a8a5b4] [processor: aggregator-size-demoFlow/processors/1/route/1/processors/0; event: 721efb90-c864-11eb-b5a7-f01898ad2638] org.mule.runtime.core.internal.processor.LoggerMessageProcessor: Aggregation complete
INFO  2021-06-08 11:18:50,254 [[MuleRuntime].uber.02: [aggregator-size-demo].aggregator-size-demoFlow.CPU_INTENSIVE @20a8a5b4] [processor: aggregator-size-demoFlow/processors/1/route/1/processors/1; event: 721efb90-c864-11eb-b5a7-f01898ad2638] org.mule.runtime.core.internal.processor.LoggerMessageProcessor: [
  {
    "Source Name": "size-based",
    "Source ID": "0.49127866969631506"
  },
  {
    "Source Name": "size-based",
    "Source ID": "0.4250959269275998"
  },
  {
    "Source Name": "size-based",
    "Source ID": "0.4160926509813687"
  }
]
```

> From the previous logger message, you can identify that for the first two HTTP requests the *Logger* component in the *Incremental aggregator* route logs the message:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From the previous logger message, you can identify that for the first two HTTP requests, the *Logger* component in the *Incremental aggregator* route logs the message
```

> `Doing incremental aggregation step.` Once the aggregation reaches the three HTTP request calls, the first *Logger* in *Aggregation complete* route logs the message `Aggregation complete` and the second *Logger* returns the aggregated payload elements which are the transformed requests into random ID numbers:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Doing incremental aggregation step.` After the aggregation reaches the third HTTP request call, the first *Logger* component in the *Aggregation complete* route logs the message `Aggregation complete` and the second *Logger* component returns the aggregated payload elements, which are the requests transformed into random ID numbers:
```
